
                              Contents Overview


----------------------------------------------------------------[Editorial]

Into Valhalla
An introduction to the third issue of Valhalla by its editor hh86.

Words From Second Part To Hell
Words from Second Part To Hell to the readers.

Words From herm1t
Words from herm1t to the readers.


Words From hh86
Words from hh86 to the readers.


Words From (o)
Words from (o) to the readers.


Words From R3s1stanc3
Words from R3s1stanc3 to the readers.


Back To The Future by Second Part To Hell
A wondeful  look  into  interviews  made to virus writers from the past, in
which  they  expressed their thoughts on how they imagined the viruses from
the future to be.

Contents Overview
This.

Contact Us!
Contact information of the people in charge of Valhalla.


-----------------------------------------------------------------[Articles]

Metamorphism and Self-Compilation in JavaScript by SPTH
A technical  description  of  the techniques employed by SPTH to create his
new JScript JS.Transcriptase virus.

Meta-Level Languages in Viruses by SPTH
SPTH describes the use of meta-level lenguages in metamorphic viruses.


GPGPU Using OpenGL by roy g biv
roy g biv describes how he implements Graphic Processor Unit and OpenGL for
encryption and decryption in his new W32.OGLe virus.


Virtual Code Windows 7 Update by roy g biv
roy g biv describes  his  Virtual Code technique, which has been updated to
work on Windows 7 OS.


Infection Using CFF Explorer Scripting by hh86
hh86  describes  in  detail  how she implemented the CFF Explorer Scripting
language  to  infect  executable files via command-line in her new W32.CFFE
virus.


Inline JScript For x86 Cryptography by hh86
hh86 describes  how  she implemented the Microsoft ScriptControl for inline
JScript  code  in her W32.Unit00 virus using an  implementation  of the RC4
algorithm in script for encryption and decryption.  


Debug Assisted Decoding by hh86
hh86 describes how she implemented her own debugger for decoding in her new
W32.Atlas virus.


Noisy Waves: TRNG virus by (o)
(o) describes  how  she implemented the WaveAudio functions to record audio
as a source for random numbers in her first and new virus W32.Wave.

Infecting JAR-Files using the JavaCompiler Class by R3s1stanc3
R3s1stanc3 describes  how he implements the JavaCompiler Class to decompile
JAR files and infect them with his new virus Java.JavaInfector.



--------------------------------------------------------------------[Codes]


JS.Transcriptase by SPTH
SPTH  presents the source code of his creation:  the world's first  JScript
self-compiling   (implementing its  own  meta-language)  metamorphic virus!


W32.OGLe by roy g biv
In Valhalla 2, roy g biv presented a mysterious preview of an upcoming code
in which he was working.      Now he brings the full source code: it is the 
world's first virus to use GPU with OpenGL for decryption.


W32.Relock.B roy g biv
This is an upgraded version of his W32.Relock  virus, which was the world's
first virus to use virtual code. Unfortunately the old version did not work
in Windows 7, but now it does.


W32.CFFe by hh86
hh86 presents  the world's first virus for a new and unlikely platform: the
CFF Explorer's Scripting Language.


W32.Unit00 by hh86
hh86  presents  the source code of a virus capable of using inline  JScript
to decrypt the code using the RC4 algorithm.


W32.Atlas
hh86  presents the source code of a virus which implements its own debugger
to control the execution of a weird decoder.   This is also a remake of the
W32.POSEY virus which was released in Valhalla 2.


W32.Sigrún.C
A new addition to the Sigrún viruses, which were released in Valhalla 1.
hh86 presents the source code of the  variant C, which is the world's first
virus to implement the AES128 algorithm using Intel AES-NI instruction set,
and also implements a technique  in which the encryption code is mutated to
a decryptor.


W32.Wave by (o)
(o) presents  the  source code of a virus which records background noise to
use it as a source of random numbers for its XTEA encryption algorithm.


Java.JavaInfector by R3s1stanc3
R3s1stanc3  presents  the  source code of a virus to infect JAR files using
the JavaCompiler Class.





