Hello and welcome to Valhalla 2!!!

Today, exactly 10 years ago, I made my first entry at my blog and had the
first contact with the vx scene. This is a perfect possibility to say thanks
for the awesome time to you - and my present to all of you is this nice
small VX e-zine.

This is now actually the third e-zine of a series:
- 01.01.2011: virus writing bulletin 2011 - valhalla #0 :-)
- 05.08.2011: valhalla #1
- 15.03.2012: valhalla #2

The idea has always been clear: We work as hard as we can, and release small
beautiful magazines. In my opinion this is much better than holding good stuff
back that it gets old.

We did not write official call-for-papers, did not officially announce the zine
anything. It was secret - except for the people who were involved. So instead
of writing one message at a homepage/forum, we wrote many many (!) mails with
interested people - thats a nice way imo, having much personal contact.

This magazine has been done by many people:

hh86 - She had the initial idea of making an e-zine, and invited me in the
       first place - that was in fall of 2010. It has been a very productive
       and interesting cooperation with her. Thanks for all of that! Hope we
       can continue this successful way :) After a short vacation, of course ;)

herm1t - So much thanks for all your effort for making this awesome great best
         Library about computer viruses and hosting us vxers :) And of course,
         thanks for the fascinating discussions. You're awesome! :)

roy g biv - Thanks for all of your great work last years - so interesting!
            Ohh, next time when you decide to send some contribution 90mins
            before the release, please consider a form where I dont have to
            use bruteforce password search for decryption - this confuses
            me alot :-o [thx to hh86 for solving this puzzle haha] Thanks
            for the nice contact over the years, wish you good luck and all
            the best!!!

mos6581 - I'm very glad we got in touch, interesting to talk to you, thanks
          for the great contribute. I hope we can keep working together for
          long time! :)

Peter Kleissner - Thanks for being part! Was very interesting to meet you.
                  Wish you much luck your trial, hope the public prosecutor
                  stops being a bitch and starts understand what became clear
                  to everybody (even the judge).

alcopaul - Thanks for being such a nice person - next time when i'm on the
           east-coast, we will go for a few beer! :) Sorry that I didnt include
           your MP3 virus which you released 2h before magazine release, please
           consider to send your stuff a bit earlier - thanks!

m0sa - I'm surprised that you aren't annoyed by me pushing you to work on
       various projects :) I'm glad we had all those interesting discussions
       about security and especially politics - i understand some things much
       better now.

belial - Thanks for letting me know about this awesome idea - DWARF. You should
         really work on it, it will be such cool project! Cant wait for the
         surprized faces of AVers who have no idea about that format :)

Peter Ferrie - Thanks alot for the time you invested to answere all interview
               questions - became a very interesting document. And now have fun
               watching us, looking at some of our code, and thinking about
               what we will do next :)) See you out there!

pr0mix - Thanks for answering the interview questions, very interesting to know
         a bit more about you. You are a pretty skilled programmer, we should
         focus and work together alot in near future :)

Wargame - Also thanks for answereing the interview - very interesting. Hope we
          will see cool new stuff by you soon. Oh, and offtopic: Congratulations
          that you finally got rid of Berlusconi! :) Arrivederci!



The future will look like this: We continue working very hard and release
sub-annual magazines, we dont announce an official date or write some
call4papers. You want to be part of those magazines, therefore will contact me
(sperl.thomas@gmail.com) I will tell you what to do :). 

In the end, some clarifications make sense: We detest online criminals who
spread malware to harm people. We write viruses for fun, because we like to
learn and develope new technologies, because we consider it as art,
because we like to think about (semi-)scientific consequences of, ...



                              [ ][0][ ]
                              [ ][ ][0]
                              [0][0][0]




I see the virus writing is alive.

                                                      Second Part To Hell
                                  www.spth.de.vu / sperl.thomas@gmail.com
                                                               March 2012


