Yeyyyyyy.... here we are - into valhalla for the fourth time!!!!! :))

Well done to hh86 again - as always she was like super motivated and has done 
a fantastic job to bring this issue together, to motivate people (including 
me) to work harder, faster; and for discovering and creating fantastic 
techniques/codes by her own. Like a "Energizer bunny" (as one of our friends 
on the other side once said). :)

This is now actually the fifth e-zine of a series:
- 01.01.2011: virus writing bulletin 2011 - valhalla #0 :-)
- 05.08.2011: valhalla #1
- 15.03.2012: valhalla #2
- 21.12.2012: valhalla #3
- 02.11.2013: valhalla #4


To let me send some "HELL-Oh!" out:

hh86 - Thanks for all the hard work you do, and the constant motivation for  
       me. I most likely would not code all those kitties for the last 3years, 
       so they somehow exist due to you ;)

roy g biv - continuously contributing things to the vx scene for so many 
            years. Thats great. And i presume you are now officially the 
            person who infected most new platforms :) Keep on the good work! 
            And thx for the interview!

JPanic - I'm really happy that you came back, and that you are such a nice, 
         helpful person. Your things are great, so much looking forward to 
         that Linux64 kitti :))) Read you soon! and thanks for the interview!

r3s1stanc3 - very nice that you are part of valhalla again. Its a very 
             interesting and creative idea, I like that :) Hope you have more 
             time to imagine and implement new fancy techniques!!

M0SA - Hey man! Long time not seen. I'm very surprised about your research, 
       seems to be so simple techniques, and still you get so good results. 
       Thats wonderful. Congrats, well done! And very nice to brainstorm with 
       you about machinal learning, swarm behaviour of autonomous artificial 
       self-replicators etc :) makes alot of fun! Lets continue thinking about 
       those crazy ideas :)

Jeff Dahmer - Hey man! Thanks so much for bringing back VX Heaven, our awesome 
              library, and the forum which we can use (and used - see my 
              Polygamy, the idea was somehow born there) for brainstorming :))

herm1t - yoooo! Thanks also to you for bringing back VX Heaven! and for 
         everything you went through last 20months. I wish everything became 
         fine finally. Looking forward to the crazy inside stories what 
         happened :) Oh yes, and as you said, I also hope to see you next 
         issue with some code. Many things are waiting... Fancy HLL meta. 
         Final step of EPO. :) Read you soon!

Black Sun - Hey! Maybe we have not talked yet - in any way, very fancy code 
            that you send! wow. I'm looking forward to some tests of it, going 
            to do that soon. Hope to have some direct contact with you some 
            day :)

genetix - heeeey! really happy your wrote me again. Wish you everything best 
          to be fine soon again. it just occurs to me that you nearly forgot 
          that you wanted to swim with sharks :-o See you soon :)

virii - Ahoi - big big thanks to you for giving us a fast, reliabale, free (!) 
        webspace! Thanks alot :) And nice that you released DC5, looking 
        forward to DC6! Yo-ho-ho...

pr0mix - yo man! very nice release with inception#1! looking forward to part 
         2! i will try very hard to be part of it this time. nice to have another 
         cool magazines around now :) 

Peter Ferrie - thanks for analysing our malware and certifying that they are 
               awesome :D Hope you have fun with this years kitties aswell :)

Mark Stamp - thanks for your cool research and for having on of your students 
             analysing metamorphic JavaScript codes :) Looking forward to news       
             from your nice research!

Eric Filiol - Your work is so wonderful. Would love to understand it much much 
              better than I do now (and trust me, I have tried already.). 
              Especially your behaviour mutational code and the k-ary theory. 
              thats so creative, and put to the mathematical basis. wonderful 
              :))

Craig Venter - (who will most likely not read this) When I found your research 
               about the synthetic life, I was absolutly excited! This is such 
               an important result, and I wish you much luck with follow up 
               research on the basis of biological life :) Thanks for it! 

more greets to so many other people, this file has not enough space for 
mention them all :-o :)



One thing I want to make totally clear: We are interested in the old-school 
kind of virus-writing. Our goal is to discover new techniques, think about new 
concepts, learn dozents of languages (hi rgb :)), ... we are freelancer-
reseacher and dont want to harm anybody (moreover we believe that the public 
available codes here might help to improve security techniques).

We do not want to earn any money with it - "VX vs Commerce", that question 
does not exist. Its like "shooting sport vs. mass murder". Specifically that 
means: We detest people who use botnets, banking trojans, spammin bots, ... to 
earn money and harm people. These are criminals and should be punished.


OK - dont waste your time in my little intro-words/greeting section, check out 
the awesome stuff in the magazine :)


                              [ ][0][ ]
                              [ ][ ][0]
                              [0][0][0]


I see the virus writing is alive.

                                                      Second Part To Hell
                           http://spth.virii.lu/ / sperl.thomas@gmail.com
                                                         twitter: @SPTHvx
                                                            November 2013