Hello people from all around the world,

almost a year ago, I wrote here about the  reminiscence of the past, of our
struggles to endure the seemingly decay of the virus scene.  But not today!
Perhaps, one of the greatest news I'm humbled to mention, is that VX Heaven
Library is back!  herm1t and company withstood the unfair accussations that
brought down the library, and now they are back, proving that herm1t is one
of the  most  diligent  and resilient persons that the scene has ever seen.

Recently, our german colleagues from Dark-CoderZ released their fifth issue
demonstrating that their magazine is only getting better and better. pr0mix
and company  made  an outstanding job assembling a team of contributors and
together  released  a high-quality magazine known as Inception, one like we
have not seen for a long time.  To all of them we salute them with our best
wishes.

But  now  it's our time.  Here is the forth issue of Valhalla to close this
year in celebration. In this new release we are presenting some of the most
incredible  creations  of  all times: the world's first virus that has been
designed and created to go beyond the digital world and into the biological
world of DNA, a virus capable of infect the very code that made us.  We are
presenting  a  family  of viruses so big, that it targets 32 new languages!
And there is also viruses for all flavors: multi-platform infectors, cross-
scripting  file  infectors using meta-language translators, new methods for
spreading,  metamorphism, new  file  infection  techniques, new  decryption
techniques, and also tricks to evade anti-virus detection.

To  the  reader  who  do not take part in creations, and to our colleagues,
we  can  only  say with joy in our hearts, that our time is once again, the
scene lives up!  From the individual coders who contribute to all sides, to
the coders  that  make the ezines and yet contribute when they are invited,
to  the  unsung  people  who contributes with their cheerful and motivating
words, to  those  eager minds who are beginning their journey in this path,
to all  of  them we address this important release, into valhalla, to  tell
them to rise and seize this opportunity to explore and conquer!

We and I hope that we meet  again someday here, with the sense of belonging
to a long coming victory.

                     Long live the virus writing and welcome to Valhalla 4!



hh86








